docs/administrationGuide.md, before:

OMA Lightweight M2M IoT Agent: Administration Guide
==================
# Index

* [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
* [Installation](#installation)
* [Configuration](#configuration)
* [Packaging](#packaging)
* [Sanity checks](#sanity)
* [Diagnosis procedures](#diagnosis)

#  <a name="prerequisites"/>  Prerequisites
The IOT Agent requires Node.js 0.10.x to work and uses NPM as its package manager. Most Linux distributions offer packages to install it. For other OS, you can find instructions to install Node.js [here](https://nodejs.org/). 

NOTE: the current version of Node.js, 0.12.x has not been tested with the Agent, so we suggest to download and use the previous version (that process can be eased with utilities as `n` or  `nvm`).


#  <a name="installation"/> Installation

## Cloning the Github repository
Once the repository is cloned, from the root folder of the project execute:
```
npm install
```
This will download the dependencies for the project, and let it ready to the execution.

## Using the RPM 
To see how to generate the RPM, follow the instructions in [Packaging](#rpm).

To install the RPM, use the YUM tool:
```
yum localinstall --nogpg <rpm-file>
```

## Using Docker
There are automatic builds of the development version of the IOTAgent published in Docker hub. In order to install using the docker version, just execute the following:
```
docker run --link orion:orion fiwareiotplatform/lighteweightm2m-iotagent
```
As you can see, the Lightweight M2M (as any other IOTA) requires a Context Broker to work. In order to link it, just use the option `--link` as shown in the example.

# <a name="usage"/> Usage
## Github installation
In order to execute the IOTAgent, just issue the following command from the root folder of the cloned project:
```
bin/lwm2mAgent.js [config file]
```
The optional name of a config file is optional and described in the following section.

## RPM installation
The RPM installs a linux service that can be managed with the typical instructions:
```
service iotagent-lwm2m start

service iotagent-lwm2m status

service iotagent-lwm2m stop
```

In this mode, the log file is written in `/var/log/iotagent-lwm2m/iotagent-lwm2m.log`.

# <a name="configuration"/> Configuration
There are two ways to provide the IOT Agent with a configuration set: passing the name of a config file (related to the root folder of the project) or customize the example `config.js` in the root. 

The configuration file is divided in two sections: one standard section for the NGSI North bound `ngsi`, and another one for the specific Lightweight M2M South bound, `lwm2m`. The former follows the same format described for the Node.js IOT Agent Framework, described [here](https://github.com/telefonicaid/iotagent-node-lib#global-configuration). The latter configures the Lightweight M2M library used for communicating with the devices, as described [here](https://github.com/telefonicaid/lwm2m-node-lib#-configuration) (`server` section).

These are the specific LWM2M parameters that can be configured for the agent:
* **logLevel**: level of logs for the IOTAgent specific information. E.g.: 'DEBUG'.
* **port**: UDP port where the IOTAgent will be listening. E.g.: 60001.
* **defaultType**: for the cases when no type can be assigned to a device (no preprovision or path asignation of type), this type will be assigned by default. E.g.: 'Device'
* **types**: for IOTAgents with multiple southbound paths, this attribute maps attribute types (defined either in the configuration file or by using the Device Configuration API) to southbound interfaces. E.g.:
```
        {
            name: 'Light',
            url: '/light'
        },
        {
            name: 'Pressure',
            url: '/pres'
        },
        {
            name: 'Arduino',
            url: '/arduino'
        }
```
# <a name="packaging"/> Packaging
The only package type allowed is RPM. In order to execute the packaging scripts, the RPM Build Tools must be available
in the system.

From the root folder of the project, create the RPM with the following commands:
```
cd rpm
./create-rpm.sh <release-number> <version-number>
```
Where `<version-number>` is the version (x.y.z) you want the package to have and `<release-number>` is an increasing
number dependent un previous installations. 

# <a name="sanity"/> Sanity checks
## Checking the administrative interface is up 
The first procedure that can be executed to check if the IoTAgent is running is to get the version from the administrative
interface. A curl command can be used to do so:
```
curl -v http://<server_ip>:4041/iot/about
```
The result of this execution must be a 200 OK return code along with the version of the IoT Agent library being executed:
```
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
X-Powered-By: Express
Content-Type: application/json; charset=utf-8
Content-Length: 46
ETag: W/"2e-d494dc75"
Date: Fri, 25 Sep 2015 08:14:45 GMT
Connection: keep-alive
 
{"version":"0.8.1","port":4041,"baseRoot":"/"}
```

## Checking both southbound and northbound ports are up
Using `netstat` in a Linux machine, the ports can be checked up. The IoT Agent should be listening in two ports: the 
administration and provisioning port (tipically TCP 4041) and the Lightweight M2M port (typically 60001). 

The administrative port can be checked with the following command:
```
netstat -ntpl | grep 4041
```

and the result should be a single line like the following:

```
tcp        0      0 0.0.0.0:4041                0.0.0.0:*                   LISTEN      <PID>/node            
```
where the `<PID>` corresponds to the PID of the IoT Agent.


The Lightweight M2M port can be checked with the following command:
```
netstat -nupl | grep 60001
```

and the expected result would be a line like the following:
```
udp        0      0 0.0.0.0:60001               0.0.0.0:*                               589/node
```
where the `<PID>` corresponds to the PID of the IoT Agent.

## Making a simple Lightweight M2M Protocol Check
In order to make a simple LWM2M Check, a LWM2M client should be installed. The best approach is to install the client
of the same library the IoT Agent uses, the [Node.js LWM2M Library](https://github.com/telefonicaid/lwm2m-node-lib).
This library contains a simple command line Lightweight M2M Client that can be used to test simple scenarios. For examples
on how to perform these kind of tests, see the How-To's in the [Getting Started section of the User Manual](userGuide.md#gettingstarted)
that shows simple registrations and send measure tests.

# <a name="diagnosis"/> Diagnosis procedures
Whenever a problem is risen in the IoT Agent, or if the Sanity Checks fail, the administrator should look at the log files
in order to check what kind of problema has happened. If the IoT Agent has been deployed using the RPMs, logs will be 
located in the `/var/log/iotagent-lwm2m` folder. If the IoT Agent has been started from the command line, logs are 
written to the stdout. Whenever you are trying to debug a log, change first the log level as explained in the configuration
section. Be aware that the northbound and southbound sides of the IOTA have different log levels, that can be set independently.

Commit message:

ADD Sanity check based on services

docs/administrationGuide.md, after:

OMA Lightweight M2M IoT Agent: Administration Guide
==================
# Index

* [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
* [Installation](#installation)
* [Configuration](#configuration)
* [Packaging](#packaging)
* [Sanity checks](#sanity)
* [Diagnosis procedures](#diagnosis)

#  <a name="prerequisites"/>  Prerequisites
The IOT Agent requires Node.js 0.10.x to work and uses NPM as its package manager. Most Linux distributions offer packages to install it. For other OS, you can find instructions to install Node.js [here](https://nodejs.org/). 

NOTE: the current version of Node.js, 0.12.x has not been tested with the Agent, so we suggest to download and use the previous version (that process can be eased with utilities as `n` or  `nvm`).


#  <a name="installation"/> Installation

## Cloning the Github repository
Once the repository is cloned, from the root folder of the project execute:
```
npm install
```
This will download the dependencies for the project, and let it ready to the execution.

## Using the RPM 
To see how to generate the RPM, follow the instructions in [Packaging](#rpm).

To install the RPM, use the YUM tool:
```
yum localinstall --nogpg <rpm-file>
```

## Using Docker
There are automatic builds of the development version of the IOTAgent published in Docker hub. In order to install using the docker version, just execute the following:
```
docker run --link orion:orion fiwareiotplatform/lighteweightm2m-iotagent
```
As you can see, the Lightweight M2M (as any other IOTA) requires a Context Broker to work. In order to link it, just use the option `--link` as shown in the example.

# <a name="usage"/> Usage
## Github installation
In order to execute the IOTAgent, just issue the following command from the root folder of the cloned project:
```
bin/lwm2mAgent.js [config file]
```
The optional name of a config file is optional and described in the following section.

## RPM installation
The RPM installs a linux service that can be managed with the typical instructions:
```
service iotagent-lwm2m start

service iotagent-lwm2m status

service iotagent-lwm2m stop
```

In this mode, the log file is written in `/var/log/iotagent-lwm2m/iotagent-lwm2m.log`.

# <a name="configuration"/> Configuration
There are two ways to provide the IOT Agent with a configuration set: passing the name of a config file (related to the root folder of the project) or customize the example `config.js` in the root. 

The configuration file is divided in two sections: one standard section for the NGSI North bound `ngsi`, and another one for the specific Lightweight M2M South bound, `lwm2m`. The former follows the same format described for the Node.js IOT Agent Framework, described [here](https://github.com/telefonicaid/iotagent-node-lib#global-configuration). The latter configures the Lightweight M2M library used for communicating with the devices, as described [here](https://github.com/telefonicaid/lwm2m-node-lib#-configuration) (`server` section).

These are the specific LWM2M parameters that can be configured for the agent:
* **logLevel**: level of logs for the IOTAgent specific information. E.g.: 'DEBUG'.
* **port**: UDP port where the IOTAgent will be listening. E.g.: 60001.
* **defaultType**: for the cases when no type can be assigned to a device (no preprovision or path asignation of type), this type will be assigned by default. E.g.: 'Device'
* **types**: for IOTAgents with multiple southbound paths, this attribute maps attribute types (defined either in the configuration file or by using the Device Configuration API) to southbound interfaces. E.g.:
```
        {
            name: 'Light',
            url: '/light'
        },
        {
            name: 'Pressure',
            url: '/pres'
        },
        {
            name: 'Arduino',
            url: '/arduino'
        }
```
# <a name="packaging"/> Packaging
The only package type allowed is RPM. In order to execute the packaging scripts, the RPM Build Tools must be available
in the system.

From the root folder of the project, create the RPM with the following commands:
```
cd rpm
./create-rpm.sh <release-number> <version-number>
```
Where `<version-number>` is the version (x.y.z) you want the package to have and `<release-number>` is an increasing
number dependent un previous installations. 

# <a name="sanity"/> Sanity checks
## Checking the administrative interface is up 
The first procedure that can be executed to check if the IoTAgent is running is to get the version from the administrative
interface. A curl command can be used to do so:
```
curl -v http://<server_ip>:4041/iot/about
```
The result of this execution must be a 200 OK return code along with the version of the IoT Agent library being executed:
```
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
X-Powered-By: Express
Content-Type: application/json; charset=utf-8
Content-Length: 46
ETag: W/"2e-d494dc75"
Date: Fri, 25 Sep 2015 08:14:45 GMT
Connection: keep-alive
 
{"version":"0.8.1","port":4041,"baseRoot":"/"}
```

## Checking both southbound and northbound ports are up
Using `netstat` in a Linux machine, the ports can be checked up. The IoT Agent should be listening in two ports: the 
administration and provisioning port (tipically TCP 4041) and the Lightweight M2M port (typically 60001). 

The administrative port can be checked with the following command:
```
netstat -ntpl | grep 4041
```

and the result should be a single line like the following:

```
tcp        0      0 0.0.0.0:4041                0.0.0.0:*                   LISTEN      <PID>/node            
```
where the `<PID>` corresponds to the PID of the IoT Agent.


The Lightweight M2M port can be checked with the following command:
```
netstat -nupl | grep 60001
```

and the expected result would be a line like the following:
```
udp        0      0 0.0.0.0:60001               0.0.0.0:*                               589/node
```
where the `<PID>` corresponds to the PID of the IoT Agent.

## Checking the service is up
A quick way to check if the service is working is to use the `status` command of the service. Execute:
```
service iotagent-lwm2m status
```
This will tell you if the SO thinks the IOTA Service is up. Be aware that this is just a quick method based on PID checking, 
that doesn't check the actual working Agent, just the existence of the process. Querying the administrative interface
is always a stronger check.

## Making a simple Lightweight M2M Protocol Check
In order to make a simple LWM2M Check, a LWM2M client should be installed. The best approach is to install the client
of the same library the IoT Agent uses, the [Node.js LWM2M Library](https://github.com/telefonicaid/lwm2m-node-lib).
This library contains a simple command line Lightweight M2M Client that can be used to test simple scenarios. For examples
on how to perform these kind of tests, see the How-To's in the [Getting Started section of the User Manual](userGuide.md#gettingstarted)
that shows simple registrations and send measure tests.

# <a name="diagnosis"/> Diagnosis procedures
Whenever a problem is risen in the IoT Agent, or if the Sanity Checks fail, the administrator should look at the log files
in order to check what kind of problema has happened. If the IoT Agent has been deployed using the RPMs, logs will be 
located in the `/var/log/iotagent-lwm2m` folder. If the IoT Agent has been started from the command line, logs are 
written to the stdout. Whenever you are trying to debug a log, change first the log level as explained in the configuration
section. Be aware that the northbound and southbound sides of the IOTA have different log levels, that can be set independently.
